[sounds of thunder and typing]
(Geoff Sirc) So, and this is like Longinus
you know
we don’t want to persuade people
when we write.
What we want to do is blow their head off,
and you know I get that.
We want to amaze them,
and so that leads Longinus
to talking about the rhetorical figures.
And those little snippets in those
In the cool [Sirc fades out]
(Male narrator) Geoff Sirc loves
Longinus.
And those short snippets that lead to
the sublime.
One of my favorites snippets is
“The Red Wheelbarrow,” by
William Carlos Williams.
The poem has been called
a Rorschach’s blot
for the way its opening stanza evokes
the whole metaphysical project.
What is it that depends? Anything.
And everything.
The structure of the poem
whets our anticipation
with the enjambed, so much depends, pause
upon white space
Then the piece pulls back with particulars
that border on the banal.
It’s driven the critics nuts.
Some say, the poem is about labor.
Some say, the modern condition.
But my favorite: a certain cast of light.
(Geoff Sirc) You know the way
that I would do, you know
a happening classroom,
because you know, I mean students come in
and immediately
it’s a different atmosphere.
That's what you want
You want to just change the
atmosphere in the room
so that they’re not breathing the same old
college-expectation atmosphere.
It’s a different climate and, you know,
ah, so, so there.
(Narrator) Viewing the poem as about
a cast of light
and thinking about atmosphere leads us to
the theoretical portion of this
alternative response.
Happenings can’t be uncoupled
from their space and time.
They are atmospheric events,
like the weather, like compositions.
(Sirc) Let’s spend like a day on the
sonnet and let’s just, you know
let's just marvel at this, you know.
Or whatever
Because, you know, it’s just, it's just
language, I think is what’s, is what’s
for me happening.
(Narrator) So now we’ve linked
composing with the weather.
We just need to add chickens.
Let’s start with a scene
outside of a window.
This is looking out from my house
on the front yard.
And now let’s add some trickery.
This is my laptop set up to record
a performance of some music.
And a projector set up to cast images
of moving hands
upon the surface of a guitar
as the music plays
Now let’s add a video of those
moving hands.
And let’s add some moving wheat
with a certain cast of light.
Let’s gather ourselves.
Let’s breathe in deeply.
And breathe out together.
Let’s see what happens.
[sound of phone bumping a guitar;
distant sounds of birds]
[guitar strumming; sounds of birds]
♪ I walk in the rain
from time to time.
I feel the drops upon my face
and see them as they glisten
in the light,
so bright, on the wheelbarrow. ♪
[Guitar strumming]
♪ The smell of sweet gardenia in the air.
There’s a scratching in the dirt nearby
and you wonder why
And you turn to hear
And your eye is clear
As the birds appear. ♪
[Guitar strumming]
♪ I will walk beside you 'til the end.
And we will just grow closer
with each tender hour we spend,
looking out upon the garden
as it reaches toward the rain shower, ♪
[Guitar strumming]
♪ like a friend.
'Cause on you and I together
and the chickens and the weather,
so much depends. ♪
[Sound from documentary film:
weather, on the other hand,
refers to the day-to-day conditions
of the earth’s atmosphere.]
(Narrator) ♪ I whisper your name
from time to time. ♪
[Keyboard clacking and guitar strumming]
♪ I smell the drops the upon your hair
and I take your hand in mine.
And I hold you tight.
I find your smile.
And we both sigh. ♪
[birds chirping, chicken cooing]
(Narrator) ♪ And the
clouds open like islands in the sky. ♪
[keyboard clacking]
♪ And the birds are scratching here nearby
and a silver light it shines,
on the colors in your eyes,
and the water-covered sides
of the wheelbarrow. ♪
[keyboard clacking, birds chirping,
wheat rustling]
(Narrator) ♪ I will walk beside you
till the end.
And we will just grow closer
with each tender hour we spend,
looking out upon the garden
as it turns toward the sunlight, ♪
[chicken cooing; guitar strumming]
(Narrator) ♪ like a friend.
'Cause on you and I together
and the chickens and the weather,
so much depends. ♪
[Bird sounds]
(Narrator) ♪ On you and I together,
on you and I together.
On you and I together,
on you and I together,
so much depends. ♪